go get something to eat, and we're driving down the road there, and the whole front end of the car just collapses on the wheels.
And I said, man, I broke his Cadillac, you know.
And I hated to call him.
I called him, and he, boy, he comes over and apologizes about that old car he gave me and everything.
I've never been in a car like that except when they recruited me to pick me up down there, but I was driving, and boy, I felt terrible about it.
And years later, his son, Andy Elliott, was on my board at the association.
Banker, Austin.
and we're talking about that car and he said yeah my brother and I used to get that car and go out and hunt jackrabbits in it and we messed those springs up out there and we didn't want to tell mother about it and I said I could have killed him you know.
But anyway that's that was our first date we'd kind of been an Aggie in those days you didn't get to have much contact with females so
We'd try to see each other once in a while and finally after my junior year at A&M we married.
Then it got serious.
So you come back to school the spring of your sophomore year?
I come back to spring and it was a, at that point I'd been trained all through the
went to the Olympics in the fall, and I'm really in good shape, and I start out throwing well.
And then early that year, I meet in College Station, I throw 67-11, which breaks the world record.
And that kind of took the pressure off then.
So two weeks later, I'm throwing in Austin.
Without that pressure, I've had the record, and I throw 69.
and it's not going to count because they didn't have a, the ring was not official.
And that's typical of their deals over there, you know.
But I mean, I really threw well over and Austin was a great place to throw.
I told them it was because of that orange wall out there I wanted to tear down.
And so before, they're going to submit it, but it's probably not going to count because it didn't have a metal raised rimmer in it.
And we come back for the Southwest Conference meeting in Kyle Field.
And I threw 70 feet 5 1â„2 inches, which is the first 70-foot throw, and broke the world records.
I didn't have to worry about the Austin.
They never submitted it as a record.
The problem with that was, I mean, that was a great relief.
I think if I had been throwing 69 and set, you know, right close to it, the pressure would have probably been a lot greater than it was because it kind of, I really didn't think I would throw 70 feet that year.
But because of that, everywhere I went after that, they expected me to throw 70.
And I remember a week later, I'm at the Coliseum Relays in Los Angeles, a big crowd, and I threw 67, 11, which is still fun than anybody had ever thrown before, except me.
And they booed when I didn't throw 70 feet.
So they kind of put it all in perspective.
I knew the pressure was going to be on from then on.
When you threw 70, did you call anybody special?
Well, my mother and dad.
What'd they say?
Well, they were thrilled, but they never got too high about stuff, you know.
They were happy for me and kept up with me.
But, you know, they handled it just right.
They never made it so that they thought they would be disappointed if I didn't do well.
They'd just be disappointed for me.
But they always knew what I was doing.
Everywhere I went, I called them in front.
Now, when you came back to school here, did you live on the campus?
Yes, I stayed in the dorm.
Still in Hart?
Yeah, they moved us over to Dorm 15, they called it then, Fowler.
They moved to Spring Sports and we all grumbled because it was air conditioned and carpeted, but they had all these rules and stuff and we were old Hart Hall guys.
I used to like to take my shot put and roll it down the steps late at night.
There's old concrete and metal, you couldn't hurt it.
And so you had these ramps and you get your shot put up there and you start to see how far it'd go down and listen to everybody hollering and complaining that you'd wake up.
And we were able to do things like that.
We couldn't do it the other place.
What kind of jokes or pranks or good bull did you athletes gauge in?
Oh, there was always, there was always
something going on.
They found out or it became pretty common that I was afraid of snakes and it's strange because my youngest son is one of his fields in genetics is snakes.
I mean at one time we had 20 snakes in our house since then but I was afraid of snakes and
I even got me a rubber snake trying to get used to them and laid out there and I'd jump every time I'd walk in my room you know so I was trying to get like a phobia almost you know I see a picture of them so well some of the guys they had this swimmer that lived in the dorm and said Matson would think it'd be good bull if you go catch him a snake down there you know they're always going down the river and swimming and so he called it it was a pretty good size water snake wouldn't hurt you
And he came to the front door and I opened that door and he's holding that snake and hands it to me and I about had a heart attack.
But I got him the next day and Hart, I mean Fowler then or his dorm 15, all the doors open like a motel out and we're on the fourth floor.
And I picked him up and held him out over that edge and said, I don't want to see any more snakes up here, you know.
So the swimmers got the message, I don't want to see any more snakes up there, because I was scared to death of them.
I remember one time in the dorm, the Corps guys used to have to march by there, and people, every once in a while, non-regs would throw water on them when they were marching to chow over there.
And we weren't involved in it, we were just sitting watching, but there was a little of that going on.
Well, some upperclassmen,
have a freshman run over there and throw a bucket of water on me.
And I'm just sitting over watching.
And he comes over there and just hits me with this water, you know.
He doesn't know who I am or anything, so I take you out after him.
And I catch him and tackle him.
And the bucket, his trash can falls over and it's all mashed up.
And I pick him up and, you know, what am I gonna do?
I mean, the guy was sent over there and I just pat him on the head.
and he went on his way you know and the next day he shows up at my front door with his trash can all mashed up and wanted me to autograph it.
So I thought that was a good bull so I autographed it.
Next day I get a call from
I think they called them Dean of Students in those days or whatever they called them, Dean of Men or whatever they called them.
Bridge of Brazil, I think who it was when you come see him, which is not a good thing.
They never called you to come over and just see how you're feeling and everything going okay.
So I go over and he said, now you're not in trouble or anything, but I just have heard this story.
that this freshman threw water on you, and when you caught him, he bent the trash can over his head.
And that story still lives.
I mean, I've had people swear that they saw me do it, and that trash can fell off down there and got all mashed up, but it made a better story that I took it and bent it over that freshman's head.
Did Mr. Brazil breathe?
I don't know whether he believed in me or not, but there was no punishment attached to it, so.
I got off of that.
Where did, if you and your friends wanted to relax on a Saturday night in those months, what did y'all do?
Well, not much.
We'd go to the drive-in movie or the campus theater.
There was a circle drive-in or the campus theater.
A lot of Saturday nights you know we're going to track meets and when the indoor season started getting and then outdoor there wasn't a whole lot of time.
The year I played basketball the whole year I was tied up.
But you know we'd go to Houston with somebody or Austin some, a little I don't remember a lot of that.
Thursday night was a night we might go to Sam Houston State to see if we could get a date.
The way you had to do it in those days is somebody had to have a contact and you'd drive over with them.
They'd go in the dorm, they'd call upstairs, and then you'd kind of jockey for position as they came down.
And if you were a little slow, then you got the last pick.
And we did that a few times, but that didn't work out too well for us.
But that was a common thing for Aggies to go over there.
Right, then once you had that date, where did y'all go in Huntsville?
Just get something, there wasn't much to do, you know, get something to eat.
There wasn't a whole lot to do.
I don't remember what we did.
Just to be around girls, you know.
And I'm assuming some of the girls were probably pretty bored too with the dates they ended up with.
Yeah, I don't think they thought they had any, you know, because there was kind of a stigma on the girls that would date Aggies anyway over, you know.
Now who, you didn't have a car yet, or did you?
No, well.
Who had wheels?
Donnie?
Donnie had had a car.
Okay.
and his parents checked the speedometer on it so we had to disconnect that because they they were pretty it wasn't even being serious and then I bought a 56 Chevrolet from my dad probably my sophomore year and brought it back and it wasn't real
reliable it would and so there's always somebody could work on it but the way i financed the gas was and the gas was like a dollar and a quarter gallon in those days i mean excuse me 25 cents a gallon in those days about 26 25 cents
And the way I financed it, I left the keys and the floorboard and parked it under a tree by Guyon Hall, which wasn't an official spot.
And I made it almost that year without getting a ticket, finding out that it wasn't registered.
We never registered.
But anybody in the dorm that wanted to go to
only place you went really was to go get something at the mall which the manor east mall or gibson's go to gibson's or maybe it's a roppy's on sunday but you just go get it and drive it and put a dollar's worth of gas in it which give me about four gallons and so it was kind of the community deal i took it out to easterwood one time and somebody stole the transmission out of it while i was going and i gave it to a guy to fix it could work on them and
And then he fixed it up and finally sold it.
But it got to be kind of a clunker, but that's the only transportation we had.
But we didn't need a lot.
If you all were going to go eat, where did you go off campus?
Where did you all go?
Well you had about three choices.
You'd go to Underwoods, which is an old college.
And they had the Aggie Special.
Underwoods or Youngbloods?
Youngbloods.
Youngbloods, not Underwood.
Underwood is a barbecue place.
It wasn't here.
It was Youngbloods or Wormans, which is out off of 21, I guess, or over in Bryan.
It was a long way over there.
Ours are Rappi's.
Or Coach Norton's.
Now that was a, but the general couldn't afford to do that.
After I married later on, we had,
upgraded and went to coach norton right and as you and this young lady get serious how do y'all communicate did you call telephone letters didn't get to see each other too much she'd get to come a little bit and uh now she she was serious about going church is that right right and did you get serious yeah because the only ways on sunday nights or wednesday nights i could ever when we
went home in the summer and could be with her if I had to go to church first and got doing that and then started going on my own here.
All right, now I have always assumed that with your basic attitudes about life,
that denomination fit in well.
Do you think that's right?
Probably.
It probably did because it's pretty disciplined, conservative, and, you know, I think so.
I think it was, in spite of, you know, just wanting to be with her, I think it all fit in well.
So you started going to the Church of Christ here at Northgate?
Were there any special friends that went with you?
No, not really.
There were some people over I knew.
Such as?
Well, Coach Stalin went there.
But you got to know people over there.
I got to know a number of people I'm still close to today from my student days there.
if there were students or otherwise.
Was this young fellow named Robert Walker yet back?
No, I think he was in California then.
I did not know him then.
I think he was still at Pepperdine in California.
Then he kind of came back after I'd kind of left him there.
What did you and your buddies, how did y'all dress for class since you weren't in the Corps?
Well we had to wear, generally wore jeans and a shirt, usually with a collar on it.
In the summer some classes you could wear Bermuda shorts in, you never wore workout stuff.
What kind of shoes?
Never wore athletic shoes, you wore regular shoes.
And I remember I had a speech professor.
I'm trying to think of his name.
It wasn't C.K.S.
No, but it was just about like him.
He wrote me a poem, I still have, that would really touch me because I was scared to death of the guy.
He was rough.
Anyway, I came in in shorts and whites.
socks with my regular loafer shoes.
And I don't know why, I didn't have a tendency to be a smart aleck, but he said, Mr. Matt, you know there's a university regulation that says you can wear them in shorts, but you have to have long socks.
And I had them come to the bottom of my calf and I said, well,
For a regular guy, those socks would be longer than me."
He said, that's a good answer.
And let me wear them, you know.
But I thought I could have gotten in big trouble because I think I was being a smart addict, but I was just trying to figure out how to get out of this.
But anyway it was, you know,
You know, I don't ever remember, I see them now wearing athletic stuff.
I don't know if there's any ruling in it.
Now we, at A&M, you didn't wear any of your high school jackets or anything like that.
You had to take the letters off of them if you did.
Did you even bring any of your... No.
And then you didn't wear, like you wouldn't wear another school's T-shirt like they do now.
I mean I really get on with kids when I see them.
They'll be wearing an SMU or Notre Dame or something.
I said man you'd be in big trouble back in our day and they'd think we're crazy.
And you stayed with your major, you never thought about changing.
Did you have any course that really gave you a problem?
That was a real difficult?
Well, not in my major so much.
I mean there were, I had some professors that were challenged, you know, that I have good memories of.
Herb Thompson was the one that I mean, you know,
He was one of those guys that was a little intimidating, you know, to you.
And he understood that he expected you to act a certain way in class and there was a factor in his grade.
He wasn't sure exactly what it was that could determine.
That could influence your final grade by how you sat in your chair and how you acted.
So he said just keep that in mind, which you did, you know.
But he basically expected you to learn
what he taught you and he told you what was most important and it was a lot of rote to it you just had to almost memorize and you do a lot of it but today I remember some of those things he taught me about marketing research and which is not a particularly glamorous or exciting kind of class you would think but he was an excellent teacher and
and helped a lot of students later on you know I mean he had tremendous contacts in the business world and helped people with jobs and they called him and looking for uh Aggies would call and looking for uh employees you know anybody he recommended would do well and and and he was a good good teacher he was hard and demanding a lot.
Who were some of the other teachers that you now look back on with great appreciation?
Well you know it's been so long I'd probably forget some that I would think of.
Well there's a marketing professor, Jerry DeHaye, he later became a dean at, oh I guess he was, I guess he ended up at North Texas maybe, a dean at Tarleton for a while.
I had about two or three marketing classes and he had a real interest in the students and he worked for Procter & Gamble so he could relate the real life thing to you.
I remember I had a graduate student who didn't like any of them, wasn't playing on a stand and taught a math survey class, the last math hurdle I had to get through and so I put it off as long as I could.
And he didn't like having to teach.
He was just out of sorts with the whole thing.
And had very few graduate students that actually taught us in those days.
And this was kind of a basic survey class, that's why you had him doing it.
And I really struggled because you had a little of everything in there.
And when I left I knew I'd fail that class and I'm going to have to work out something to get back on my schedule, you know.
So I mean I went home and told Mother and Dad I may have to go to summer school, you know, and I don't know how I'm going to do that with all the track meets coming up.
a grade report in the mail a few days after I got home.
It said I made a D, which I was the happiest.
It was the only D I made and was the happiest grade I had.
And I got back and I just had to go ask if he gave it to me, you know.
And he looked at him and said no, he pulled out his book and said you had a 48 average and I'm a straight curve guy and 47 is a F and you made a D. I said that's all I want to know.
And I was glad to get good out of there and he didn't give me a thing.
But of course you know Fred Smith who taught me geology and some of those guys I got to know
you know, later on, you know.
Looking back, do you remember any courses in which you got a grade that you felt you didn't deserve, either plus or minus?
No, I really don't.
You know, I... Nobody graded you higher or lower than you?
Not that I know of, you know.
I had one professor, an English professor, I can't remember his name now,
that we were told that you know if you got in there you're in trouble if you're an athlete and I drew it and in those days you didn't know who your professor was.
I mean you spent more time trying to figure out who your professor was if there's any way and in some departments you couldn't find out at all and so you went in there and sat down and he's writing his name on the board
and talking to us and he said, by the way, if I've got any athletes in here, it's not impossible to pass, but I've never had one.
And we got, there was four of us back there, and we got up and just backed out, you know, keeping our eyes, not even afraid he was going to turn around, and went out the door and went down and got us, said we can't take that class at that time, we've got to work out, and had to talk our way out of getting out of it.
It wasn't an easy thing to get out of a class and get in another one in those days.
But, you know, I think that...
You know I would assume I guess with the more knowledge and the kind of faculty they have it may be harder today but I think the faculty members challenged you in those days pretty good and expected a lot out of you.
Not just what you learned but you know you expected you to show up and and like some of them said you know PR is going to be part of your life so you better practice a little bit of it with me you know.
Were there any, as far as you and your buddies were aware, were there any giveaway courses in that era?
Yes.
Where were they?
There was music appreciation, but I was afraid to try it because I figured they'd switch on it.
There was one math course and I got in there.
because math was my challenge and it was a lot of old quizzes floating around so all the athletes would try to get in that math class and the first day I woke in and the regular professor I mean we had it right but he's sick
And we about flunked out after that first test and he finally got back and finally got out of it.
But, you know, it was the first semester that everybody didn't make an A. There was a few classes like that, but not very many.
There wasn't any basket weaving kind of deals that you used to have for athletes.
They didn't have special classes, you know.
There weren't any for athletes?
No.
And this one where you said there's an old test, what you're saying is that he didn't change the quiz as much from year to year.
No, and didn't care.
You know, I mean, so it wasn't like, I guess you rationalize and not cheat him, because he would say, you know.
You know, if you're resourceful enough to help me, and the Corps guys had tremendous quiz files in those days.
And so you, it was to your benefit to, not just to find the old quiz, but to study for a quiz, you know.
They had a lot of
A lot of files and access to classes, you know, and information on what kind of quiz, you know, you may have six of the professor's old quizzes and the odds of you having a lot of questions the same.
And so we had a lot of friends in the Corps, you know, that would come over and study it.
At first they wanted to get away from where they were at, you know, and so they could come over to our dorm where they're not hassled.
And then, you know, we had access to some of their quiz files.
Who did you turn to for academic advice counsel?
My brother, I just talked to him the other day.
You know who it is.
Not McCandless.
No, no.
They hired an academic advisor, and he went out to consolidate it for a long time.
Oh, oh, oh, oh.
Yes, yes, yes.
Buddy Denton.
But basically, you know, and he would try to advise you on, basically advise you on professors and stuff and, you know, what you need to graduate, and he would do that.
You had to make the initiative.
They didn't babysit you, you know, especially if you were a
track guy you know or something if you're a football player they want to make sure you went to class and they check on you that way you're on your own to do that which was best but he would he was a good guy and really cared and tried there's one guy now they have a whole staff of people that and computers to keep up with it basically it was to help you get the schedule they let you in the side door and and then you you know you know you knew what you had to take to stay on track
And that was most of the academic advising.
And if you had a problem you could go see them, which you did from time to time.
But generally in those days you wouldn't see your professor, you know what I mean.
Very few professors I had I was uncomfortable not going in or they acted like they didn't want you to come by.
And I think that helped.
Not that it made them grade you any different, but they knew you were interested in trying.
Do you remember anybody trying to pull off any pranks in class?
Any good bull?
You know, I don't remember a lot of that.
We were about half afraid of, you know, we had a bunch of old retired colonels as professors and stuff, you know, and I don't know, there was just kind of, in our day it seemed like, you know, I know there was some stuff, you know, that went on and, but you know, I don't, I'm sure we had some of that, but you know, I had Judge Stewart in class, you know, and that was always interesting and he harassed everybody, you know, that was part of his style, but he was a good teacher.
and taught business law.
And other than snakes, you all didn't have much dormitory pranks?
Oh, water fights and all that kind of stuff.
A water fight, describe a water fight.
Well, it was just
It wasn't quite like the core fights, but we'd get trash cans full of water and throw on each other.
They kind of cut a lot of that out when we moved over to Dorm 15.
Who had to clean up the mess?
Well, you just cleaned up your own room.
Nobody came in and did that.
Over in Dorm 15, describe what was in it.
Well, Dorm 15 was nice.
It was carpeted and had a bed.
Each one had a desk and had a bath in between the two rooms.
That was like moving to a motel.
Now Hart Halls, where we started out, was cinder block, concrete floor, and one bathroom to a floor and had three rooms to a floor.
And you had to go all the way down to go to the next ramp.
Which was really nice, you know, you had a lot more privacy and stuff that way.
So, but we liked it because they didn't care if you stuck stuff on the wall and the new place had wall coverings and stuff and you couldn't, couldn't do anything to it.
Now you and Donnie roomed together over there.
And what kind of, y'all have radio, didn't have TV?
No TV, had radio.
Wouldn't let you have stuff to cook with and stuff in your dorms and afraid you'd burn it down.
Didn't have little refrigerators.
Some of them had TVs, some of them started to get, started to have little TVs.
And no micro, no, and no little refrigerator.
No.
Did anybody in the dorm have any alcohol in their room?
You know they might bring it in on Saturday night but they didn't keep it in the room up there too much.
What about smoking?
Did they smoke in the dorms then?
Not in the track you know.
I'm sure that there's guys that did, but I, you know, I didn't, I don't remember a lot of that.
Were you even aware of the word marijuana?
No.
And you hadn't heard of heroin?
Not then, no, not then.
Drugs were really something we maybe heard about, but as far as seeing, it was a long time after I got out of school for it.
As far as you were aware, where did people buy beer?
and campus kids?
Well I think in those days they still went across the river down here.
I think that was just before the end of that.
But then they could start you know by then they started having beer in 7-Elevens and stuff I think a little bit.
Did you ever go to the clay pits?
Where some of them went swimming?
Yeah.
Did you ever go on one of the parties out at, down at the river?
Well, there was, yeah, I went down to the river some before school started every year.
Describe that.
It's all kind of, that's kind of hazy to me.
I wasn't a big party person and I'd go down there, you know, and those guys would drink beer and stuff, but I was pretty serious, you know.
I didn't want to do anything.
I was going to get myself hurt, get myself in trouble.
I felt like I had a little bit of obligation or quite a bit of obligation to to not get in trouble.
I remember I found out we went out to one thing I did we we left my freshman year during the season right the first part we we had a weekend off coach had to go recruit so we're supposed to work out well
a high jumper named Woods that had a car, a good car, and Sebastian, Jim Sebastian, knew some girls in Lubbock, four of us, and Donnie and I, we drove to Lubbock for a day.
I mean, that's pretty bad shape.
From here to Lubbock?
Yeah, drive eight hours, you know, to have a day.
So we drive out there.
Sebastian doesn't show up the next day, and he's been in a serious automobile accident.
They got out of a car, and somebody crushed him between it and about lost his legs and could have killed him.
Well by the time we tracked him down, he's in the hospital and it's been on the radio that I was in an accident out there, my parents have heard it, General Rutter's heard it, he calls Coach Thomas.
Coach Thomas said no they've got to be there working out, they ain't not out there at Lubbock you know.
And coach never said anything to me about not being here, but when we got back we were pretty, the three of us, and Jim took him a long time to rehabilitate and, you know, really had serious injuries.
He was a real tough guy.
He wouldn't have done as well as he did.
But I learned right then that I just got to be extra careful, you know, because, you know,
the publicity and stuff.
You just have to maybe give up some things that people normally do, you know, to have fun, maybe.
Did any reporter ever allege any wrongdoing, scandal or anything connected with you?
No, you know, I don't think so.
I don't remember anything like that.
I know I stayed mad at some sometime, but it was usually, you know, some other.
Because I don't remember any stories where you allegedly took any money, where you allegedly were drinking or anything like that.
No, I never.
They probably made fun of me because I was so squeaky clean or something.
Surely you must have sampled alcohol at some point.
Yes, I did.
In high school or where?
No, I'm mostly here at A&M.
That's about the only time that I read, but not a lot.
Was it that you didn't like it?
Well I didn't really like it, but also everything I did in those days I evaluated is it going to help me get a world record or not.
That's the impression I had.
And so, you know, I was kind of single minded on that, maybe too much in some ways.
You know as a kid I remember not wanting to go skiing and stuff like that when I was competing, you know, because I couldn't take a chance on an injury, you know.
But, you know, I enjoyed it.
I enjoyed training.
I enjoyed working out.
The worst part was having to get on an airplane and go to a track meet somewhere.
But I enjoyed trying to do a little better and lifting weights over on Saturday morning.
Everybody said, you know, you're really dedicated.
That's nothing I'd rather have been doing, you know.
Now, a typical day.
Y'all got up about what time?
Usually, most of the time,
I would try to have an eight o'clock class where I'd get up and go to breakfast.
If I didn't, I wouldn't go to breakfast.
And then every once in a while they'd get on a kick of requiring, you know, a scholarship to go to breakfast.
So you all ate in?
Usually you get up at seven.
And you ate in Cebisa?
Yes.
What was the typical breakfast?
Well, and then Duncan's.
Oh, it was, you know, scrambled eggs and